1. If the following statement were used in a Java program, it would cause something
to be written to the screen. What would it cause to be written to the screen?

System.out.println("Java is not a drink.");

    This would print: Java is not a drink.

2. Give a statement or statements that can be used in a Java program to write the
following to the screen when run:

I like Java.
You like tea.

    System.out.println("I like Java.");
    System.out.println("You like tea.");

3. Write a complete Java program that uses System.out.println to output thefollowing to the screen when run:

Hello World!

    public class HelloWorld
    {
        public static void main(String[] args)
        {
            System.out.println("Hello World!");
        }
    }

4. What is a compiler?

    a compiler is a program that translates high-level-language programs to lower-level-language programs.

5. What is a source program?

    A source program is the original code that hasnt been translated into machine code.

6. What is an object program?

    An object program is the translated code

7. What do you call a program that runs Java byte-code instructions?

    A Java Virtual Machine (JVM)

8. Suppose you define a class named NiceClass in a file. What name should the
file have? 

    NiceClass.java

9. Suppose you compile the class NiceClass. What will be the name of the file
with the resulting byte-code?

    NiceClass.class

10. Which of the following may be used as variable names in Java?

    rate1, 1stPlayer, myprogram.java, long, TimeLimit, numberOfWindows

    rate1, long, TimeLimit, and numberOfWindows can all be used as variable names.

11. Can a Java program have two different variables named number and Number?

    yes

12. Give the declaration for two variables called feet and inches. Both variables are of type int and 
both are to be initialized to zero in the declaration.

    int feet = 0, inches = 0;

13. Give the declaration for two variables called count and distance. count is of type int and is 
initialized to zero. distance is of type double and is initialized to 1.5.

    int count = 0;
    double distance = 1.5;

14. Write a Java assignment statement that will set the value of the variable distance to the value of 
the variable time multiplied by 80. All variables are of type int.

    distance = time * 80;

15. Write a Java assignment statement that will set the value of the variable
interest to the value of the variable balance multiplied by the value of the
variable rate. The variables are of type double.

    interest = balance * rate;

16. What is the output produced by the following lines of program code? 

    char a, b;
    a = 'b';
    System.out.println(a);
    b = 'c';
    System.out.println(b);
    a = b;
    System.out.println(a);

    the output would be:
    b
    c
    c